.TH JSH 1 "2026" "The-JLC-Project" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jsh \- Jamie's Shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jsh
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B jsh
is a minimal interactive shell supporting command execution, pipes,
command chaining, background jobs, and word expansion.
It uses GNU readline for line editing and persistent history.
.PP
Before a command line is executed, the shell performs word expansion on
the entire input.
Expansions are processed recursively, so nested forms such as
.B $(cmd$(cmd))
are supported.
Single-quoted strings suppress all expansion.
.SH EXPANSION
.TP
.BI $ VAR
Replaced by the value of environment variable
.IR VAR .
.I VAR
must consist of alphanumeric characters and underscores.
.TP
.BI ${ VAR }
Brace-quoted form of variable expansion.
Useful when the variable name is adjacent to other text.
.TP
.BI $( cmd )
Command substitution.
.I cmd
is executed in a subshell via
.BR popen (3)
and its standard output replaces the expression.
Trailing newlines are stripped.
Nesting is supported:
.B $(echo $(dt))
works as expected.
.SH OPERATORS
.TP
.B |
Pipes the output of one command to the input of the next.
.TP
.B &&
Executes the next command unconditionally after the previous one.
.TP
.B &
Runs the command in the background (no wait).
.SH BUILTINS
.TP
.B cd [directory]
Change the current working directory.
.TP
.B clear
Clear the terminal screen.
.TP
.B exit
Exit the shell.
.TP
.B help
Display a summary of built-in commands.
.TP
.B history
Display the readline command history.
.TP
.B ver
Display the current JSH version.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Variable expansion:
.EX
echo $HOME
echo ${USER}@$(hn)
.EE
.TP
Command substitution:
.EX
echo $(dt)
cd $(echo /tmp)
.EE
.TP
Nested substitution:
.EX
echo $(echo $(cwd))
.EE
.TP
Pipeline with expansion:
.EX
mat $(echo notes.txt) | jgrep TODO
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sh (1),
.BR bash (1),
.BR readline (3),
.BR popen (3)
.SH AUTHORS
The-JLC-Project contributors.
